[Docs] add migration (#433)
open-mmlab/mmselfsup: docs/en/migration.md

- [Migration](#migration)
  - [Migration from MMSelfSup 0.x](#migration-from-mmselfsup-0x)
    - [Config](#config)
      - [Datasets](#datasets)
      - [Models](#models)
      - [Schedules](#schedules)
    - [Folders and Files](#folders-and-files)
  - [Differences between MMSelfSup and OpenSelfSup](#differences-between-mmselfsup-and-openselfsup)
    - [Modular Design](#modular-design)
      - [Datasets](#datasets-1)
      - [Models](#models-1)
    - [Codebase Conventions](#codebase-conventions)
      - [Configs](#configs)
      - [Scripts](#scripts)

## Migration from MMSelfSup 0.x

> In this section, it explains some modifications of MMSelfSup 1.x.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we introduce some modifications of MMSelfSup 1.x., to help users to migrate their projects based on MMSelfSup from 0.x smoothly.
```

### Config

> This part shows the three main parts of our config files in `_base_` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section illusreates the changes of our config files in `_base_` folder, which includes three parts

- Datasets: `mmselfsup/configs/selfsup/_base_/datasets`
- Models: `mmselfsup/configs/selfsup/_base_/models`
- Schedules: `mmselfsup/configs/selfsup/_base_/schedules`

The detailed changes will be elobrated in the following.
```

#### Datasets

In **MMSelfSup 0.x**, we use key `data` to summarize all information, such as `samples_per_gpu`, `train`, `val`, etc.

For example:

```python
data = dict(
    samples_per_gpu=32,  # total 32*8(gpu)=256
    workers_per_gpu=4,
    train=dict(
        type=dataset_type,
        data_source=dict(
            type=data_source,
            data_prefix='data/imagenet/train',
            ann_file='data/imagenet/meta/train.txt',
        ),
        num_views=[1, 1],
        pipelines=[train_pipeline1, train_pipeline2],
        prefetch=prefetch,
    ),
    val=...)
```

> 

Reviewer: data字段在1.x是否还存在，最好需要注明一下

In **MMSelfSup 1.x**, we separate `train_dataloader`, `val_dataloader` to summarize information correspodingly.

Here is an example of `train_dataloader`:

```python
train_dataloader = dict(
    batch_size=32,
    num_workers=4,
    persistent_workers=True,
    sampler=dict(type='DefaultSampler', shuffle=True),
    dataset=dict(
        type=dataset_type,
        data_root=data_root,
        ann_file='meta/train.txt',
        data_prefix=dict(img_path='train/'),
        pipeline=train_pipeline))
val_dataloader = ...
```

Besides, we remove the key of `data_source` to keep the consistent pipeline format with other OpenMMLab projects. Please refer to [1_config.md](user_guides/1_config.md) for more details.

#### Models

In the config of models, there are two main different parts.

One is that there is a new key called `data_preprocessor`, which is responsible for preprocessing the data, like normalization, channel conversion, etc.

> 

Reviewer: 可以加个Code snippet给个实例

The other one is that a new key `loss` in `head` to determine the loss function of the algorithm.

> 

Reviewer: 可以加个Code snippet给个实例， 在loss上注释一下是1.x引入的

#### Schedules

| MMSelfSup 0.x    | MMSelfSup 1.x   | Remark                                                                                                                          |
| ---------------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | optimizer_config | /               | It is removed.                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| optimizer_config | /               | Has been **removed**.                                                                                                                  |
```

| /                | optim_wrapper   | The `optim_wrapper` provides a common interface for updating parameters.                                                        |
| lr_config        | param_scheduler | The `param_scheduler` is a list to set learning rate or other parameters, which is more flexible.                               |
| runner           | train_cfg       | The loop setting (`EpochBasedTrainLoop`, `IterBasedTrainLoop`) in `train_cfg` controls the work flow of the algorithm training. |

### Folders and Files

The table below records the general modification of the folders and files.

| MMSelfSup 0.x         | MMSelfSup 1.x       | Remark                                                                                                                                                   |
| --------------------- | ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | apis                  | /                   | Currently, the `apis` folder has been removed, it might be added in the future.                                                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| apis                  | /                   | Currently, the `apis` folder has been **removed**, it might be added in the future.                                                                          |
```

| core                  | engine              | The `core` folder has been renamed to `engine`, which includes `hooks`, `opimizers`.                                                                     |
| datasets              | datasets            | The datasets is implemented according to different datasets, such as ImageNet, Places205.                                                                |

> | datasets/data_sources | /                   | The `data_sources` has been removed and the directory of `datasets` now is consistent with other OpenMMLab projects.                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| datasets/data_sources | /                   | The `data_sources` has been **removed** and the directory of `datasets` now is consistent with other OpenMMLab projects.                                     |
```

| datasets/pipelines    | datasets/transforms | The `pipelines` folder has been renamed to `transforms`.                                                                                                 |
| /                     | evaluation          | The `evaluation` is created for some evaluation functions or classes, such as KNN function or layer for detection.                                       |
| /                     | models/losses       | The `losses` folder is created to provide different loss implementation, which is from `heads`                                                           |

> | /                     | structures          | The `structures` folder is for the implementation of data structures. In MMSelfSup, we provide `selfsup_data_sample` to save different data information. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| /                     | structures          | The `structures` folder is for the implementation of data structures. In MMSelfSup, we provide `selfsup_data_sample` to store different data information. |
```

> | /                     | visualization       | The `visualization` folder contains the visualizer, which is responsible for some visualization tasks like visualizing data augment.                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| /                     | visualization       | The `visualization` folder contains the visualizer, which is responsible for some visualization tasks like visualizing data augmentation.                     |
```

- [Migration](#migration)
  - [Migration from MMSelfSup 0.x](#migration-from-mmselfsup-0x)
    - [Config](#config)
      - [Datasets](#datasets)
      - [Models](#models)
      - [Schedules](#schedules)
    - [Folders and Files](#folders-and-files)
  - [Differences between MMSelfSup and OpenSelfSup](#differences-between-mmselfsup-and-openselfsup)
    - [Modular Design](#modular-design)
      - [Datasets](#datasets-1)
      - [Models](#models-1)
    - [Codebase Conventions](#codebase-conventions)
      - [Configs](#configs)
      - [Scripts](#scripts)

## Migration from MMSelfSup 0.x

> we introduce some modifications of MMSelfSup 1.x, to help users to migrate their projects based on MMSelfSup from 0.x smoothly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we introduce some modifications of MMSelfSup 1.x, to help users to migrate their projects based on MMSelfSup 0.x to 1.x smoothly.
```

### Config

> This section illusreates the changes of our config files in `_base_` folder, which includes three parts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section illustrates the changes of our config files in `_base_` folder, which includes three parts
```

#### Datasets

In **MMSelfSup 0.x**, we use key `data` to summarize all information, such as `samples_per_gpu`, `train`, `val`, etc.

For example:

```python
data = dict(
    samples_per_gpu=32,  # total 32*8(gpu)=256
    workers_per_gpu=4,
    train=dict(
        type=dataset_type,
        data_source=dict(
            type=data_source,
            data_prefix='data/imagenet/train',
            ann_file='data/imagenet/meta/train.txt',
        ),
        num_views=[1, 1],
        pipelines=[train_pipeline1, train_pipeline2],
        prefetch=prefetch,
    ),
    val=...)
```

In **MMSelfSup 1.x**, we separate `train_dataloader`, `val_dataloader` to summarize information correspodingly and the key `data` has been **removed**.

Here is an example of `train_dataloader`:

```python
train_dataloader = dict(
    batch_size=32,
    num_workers=4,
    persistent_workers=True,
    sampler=dict(type='DefaultSampler', shuffle=True),
    dataset=dict(
        type=dataset_type,
        data_root=data_root,
        ann_file='meta/train.txt',
        data_prefix=dict(img_path='train/'),
        pipeline=train_pipeline))
val_dataloader = ...
```

> Besides, we remove the key of `data_source` to keep the consistent pipeline format with other OpenMMLab projects. Please refer to [1_config.md](user_guides/1_config.md) for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Besides, we remove the key of `data_source` to keep the pipeline format consistent with that in other OpenMMLab projects. Please refer to [1_config.md](user_guides/1_config.md) for more details.
```

| core                  | engine              | The `core` folder has been renamed to `engine`, which includes `hooks`, `opimizers`.                                                                      |
| datasets              | datasets            | The datasets is implemented according to different datasets, such as ImageNet, Places205.                                                                 |
| datasets/data_sources | /                   | The `data_sources` has been **removed** and the directory of `datasets` now is consistent with other OpenMMLab projects.                                  |
| datasets/pipelines    | datasets/transforms | The `pipelines` folder has been renamed to `transforms`.                                                                                                  |
| /                     | evaluation          | The `evaluation` is created for some evaluation functions or classes, such as KNN function or layer for detection.                                        |

> | /                     | models/losses       | The `losses` folder is created to provide different loss implementation, which is from `heads`                                                            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| /                     | models/losses       | The `losses` folder is created to provide different loss implementations, which is from `heads`                                                            |
```

> | /                     | structures          | The `structures` folder is for the implementation of data structures. In MMSelfSup, we provide `selfsup_data_sample` to store different data information. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| /                     | structures          | The `structures` folder is for the implementation of data structures. In MMSelfSup, we implement a new data structure, `selfsup_data_sample`,  to pass and receive data throughout the training/val process. |
```

- [Migration](#migration)
  - [Migration from MMSelfSup 0.x](#migration-from-mmselfsup-0x)
  - [Config](#config)
    - [Datasets](#datasets)
    - [Models](#models)
    - [Schedules](#schedules)
    - [Runtime settings](#runtime-settings)
  - [Package](#package)

## Migration from MMSelfSup 0.x

We introduce some modifications of MMSelfSup 1.x, to help users to migrate their projects based on MMSelfSup 0.x to 1.x smoothly.

> MMSelfSup 1.x depends on some new packages, you can prepare a new clean environment and install again

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MMSelfSup 1.x depends on some new packages, you should create a new environment, with these required packages installed.
```

> according to the [install tutorial](./get_started.md). Or install the below packages manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
according to the [install tutorial](./get_started.md). Three important packages are listed below,
```

> 1. [MMEngine](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmengine): MMEngine is the core the OpenMMLab 2.0 architecture,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [MMEngine](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmengine): MMEngine is the base of all OpenMMLab 2.0 repos,.
```

>    and we splited many compentents unrelated to computer vision from MMCV to MMEngine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   and modules, which are not specific to Computer Vision, are migrated from MMCV to this repo.
```
